A collection development policy is a thing we think everyone should have.
And the likelihood is, in 2022, you probably do have one.
The other likelihood is that it may not have been updated or revised in many years.
So, what is it?
A collection development policy is a tool that tells people outside of your department
or your institution
how you go about creating and maintaining your collection.
It's a broad overview.
So, it doesn't necessarily have to get down to the nitty-gritty of every single title in your collection.
And it's written for everyone's consumption.
So, it's not just for other librarians.
It's not just for other library staff.
It can be for the general public.
It can be for anyone who is interested in your collection.
And why you need one is because people are increasingly interested
in how collections are created and maintained.
We want to be sure that instead of creating a vacuum,
where people can make their own determinations
about what we're thinking and what our criteria are,
we have a document that we can point to,
to say - this is what we were thinking; these are our criteria.
But it doesn't just need to be that formal policy.
Informally, you can have procedures, either for other people in your department,
for other people in your library or even just for yourself.
So that you know on a more individualized basis
could be broken down by category,
by age group,
how you go about creating your collection.
So, this is more procedures. If people want to know - how you evaluate material rules
to determine if they go into young adult
or adult or young adult or juvenile.
That's informal collection development
procedure that you can have in your library.
Just in case, you're not there, one day, or one month, or if you leave, and people want to know how to step in and continue the work,
and formal procedures will work for that.
Both are good to have. But the formal collection development policy is a necessity.